1. Penumbra of aggravations — countless annoying little problems related to a big problem

2. Coherent argument — a well-organized reasoning without any self-contradictions

3. Substantive contribution — an important piece of study, essential for the field

4. Diffuse activity — the skill in which is spread between researchers by itself

5. Credible resources — ones to which respect is paid

6. Prowess in a discipline — expertise

7. Skills inculcated — taught thoroughly

8. By-product approach — developing something not as a main result of a process

9. Doctoral instruction — the process of writing thesis and receiving knowledge under supervision

10. Humanities and social sciences — гуманитарные науки

11. Set out to write a book — decide to do something huge

12. Grapple with — deal or understand a difficult problem

13. Shelf-bending thesis — one that is never published

14. Apprentice researcher — working for low payment for a more skilled person

15. Dubious kudos — praise that is not certainly there

16. Taught Ph. D

17. Classical Ph. D

18. Professional doctorate

════════════════════════════════

19. Leveled planar graph — a graph drawn on the plane whose vertices are on several parallel lines

20. Layered pathwidth — the maximum size of the intersection between a layer and a bag in a decomposition of a graph

20. Outerplanar graph — a planar graph drawn in a way such that all the vertices are in the outer (unbounded) face

21. Squaregraphs — 4-faces, each vertex either in outer face or has degree 4+

22. Breadth first layering — each vertex is marked by its distance to the source vertex

23. Specify an ordering — assign consequent natural (positive integer) numbers to objects

24. Net — a simple non-overlapping unfolding of a polyhedron

25. Unit-speed parametrization — parametrization by the distance to the origin

26. Osculating circle — the one with the same curvature

27. Unit normal vector — perpendicular, of length 1

28. Principal curvatures — the highest and the lowest cuvatures of a surface at a point

29. A flaw of sorts — same things having different properties

30. Subtended — bounded, contracted

31. Intrinsic — defined from an internal view

32. Geodesic — measured inside surface

33. Elliptic, hyperbolic points — with respect to curvature

34. Angle deficit, Gaussian curvature — the difference between 2*pi and the facial angle at a point

35. Meager evidence — sparse, insufficient

36. Lament — to complain

37. Paucity — sparcity, poverty

38. Star unfolding, source unfolding — methods of unfolding a polyhedron that (supposedly) produce a non-overlapping net

39. Overlap penetration — the ratio of a penetration to the diameter

════════════════════════════════

40. Follow suit — to act conformly

41. Convex hull — a minimal convex polygon containing a given set of points

42. Vertex-edge resolution — a minimal separation between a vertex and a non-incident edge in a drawing

43. Disk-link drawing — a drawing with vertex-edge resolution of at least 1/2

44. Gluing — a pair of a set of polygons and rules specifying how to glue their boundaries

45. Polyhedron — a union of convex polyhedra, which are intersections of half-spaces

46. UDC Problem — a problem of covering a given set of points with the minimal number of unit disks

47. Erdős–Rényi graph — a randomly generated graph with sufficient connectivity

48. Prisoner's dilemma — a noncooperative game about betraying or keeping silent

49. Hawk-dove game — a noncooperative game about showing off or retreating

50. MAXQ — a method of reinforcement learning that takes the next action depending on the output of max-nodes and q-nodes

51. Schnyder labeling — an orientation on a maximal planar graph where each vertex has 3 outcoming edges

52. Canonical ordering of a planar graph — an ordering that helps draw the graph: each next vertex is in the outer face connected with a countinuous segment of previous vertices

53. LR-partition — a partition of all the back-edges with respect to a DFS-ordering into two sets. It helps test planarity of a graph

54. n-connected graph — a graph that remains connected after removal of n-1 vertices

55. Closed rectangle-of-influence drawing — a drawing such that no vertex lies in the axis-parallel rectangle defined by two ends of every edge

56. Bold drawing — vertices are drawn as disks of radius r and edges as rectangles of width w

57. Planar embedding — an equivalence class of topologically-equivalent planar drawings

58. Straight-line drawing — a drawing where all the arcs are straight-line segments

59. Grid drawing — straight-line drawing where vertices have integer coordinates

60. Point density — ratio of |P| to the area of its bounding box

61. Track layout — partition of a graph into tracks, which are independent sets, and edges between them do not cross

62. Tree decomposition — an assignment of bags such that endpoints of any edge share a bag, and each vertex is in a continuous subtree of bags

63. Path decomposition — a tree decomposition but the tree is a path

64. Treewidth — minimal size of a maximal bag -1

65. Minor — a graph obtained by deleting edges / vertices and contracting edges

66. Euler characteristic — V-E+F

67. Euler genus — 1 - chi/2

69. General position — assumptions about data that hold almost often and help evade degenerate cases

════════════════════════════════

70. Hull signature — an ordered list of vertices of the convex hull of a set

71. Dynamic nearest neighbor structure — a structure supporting insertion of a site and the query of the nearest site to a given point

72. Voronoi circle — a circle passing through three adjacent Voronoi sites

73. Sweep line — a line that is moved through the plane used to construct several geometric structures

74. Combinatorial change — a change in the graph of a structure, not only in the location of its vertices

75. Affirm — show that one has obtained a message and has no objections

76. Visibility center — a point such that the maximum geodesic distance from it to _see_ any point in the set is minimized

77. Book embedding — a drawing of a graph on several half-planes glued along their boundary

78. Abuse of notation — using the same denotion for objects of different generality

79. Winding number — the number of counterclockwise rotations of a curve around a point

80. Young diagram — a way to demonstrate integer partitions

81. Bipartite graph — a graph colored in black and white in a way that each edge has endpoints of distinct colors

82. Spanning tree — a tree obtained by deletion of several edges from a graph, but on the same set of vertices

83. Building greedily — taking a maximal possible set on each step

84. Minor-closed class — a class such that if G is in it, every minor of G is in it

85. Dual graph — a graph whose vertices are faces of G and whose edges are edges incident to these faces

════════════════════════════════

86. Geodesic center —  a point that minimizes the maximum geodesic distance from it to any point of the set

87. Chord — a segment inside a polygon intersecting its boundary only at endpoints

88. Geodesically convex subset — a subset such that if two points lie in it, so does the geodesic shortest path between them

89. Pareto optimality — a situation where no individual or preference criterion can be better off without making at least one individual or preference criterion worse off

90. Nash equilibrium — each player is assumed to know the equilibrium strategies of the other players, and no one has anything to gain by changing only one's own strategy

91. Oracle — a thing that is somehow able to solve a complicated problem in constant time

92. Winning strategy — a sequence of actions that depends on a position in a game that makes a player win the game

93. DFS — graph traversal that first goes as deep as possible along the edges

94. BFS — graph traversal that considers all the vertice's neighbors immediately after this vertex

95. Manifold — a topological space with continuous base that is locally homeomorphic to Euclidean space

96. Base — a set of sets such that any open set of the topology can be represented as a union of the sets in the base

97. Curry—Howard isomorphism — a mapping between habitable types and provable statements

════════════════════════════════

98. Unit-disk graph — a graph for a set of vertices in the plane that only has edges of unit length

99. Series-parallel graph — a graph with two terminal vertices that is formed by application of composition or parallel composition

100. Tree-apex graph — a graph that is a tree with a vertex added that is connected to each leaf

101. Apex graph — a graph that can be made planar by removing a single vertex

102. Dent — an unplanned piece of curvature on a metal sheet left behind by a miscalculated impact

103. Primary root — a generator of the multiplication group of residuies modulo p (which is, in fact, cyclic)

104. Quadratic residue — a residue congruent to the square of an integer number modulo n

105. Euclidean algorithm — an algorithm to find the greatest common divisor of a pair of numbers or polynomials that does not rely on the prime decomposition

106. Determinant — a number assigned to a matrix that behaves in a certain way under addition or permutation of rows

107. Permutation — a bijection between a finite set and itself

108. Sign — a homomorphism from a group to {-1,1}

109. Homomorphism — a linear map, i. e. a map preserving the structure

110. Arrangement — the subdivision of the plane into cells, edges and vertices induced by a given set of lines

111. Heavy path decomposition — a decomposition of a tree into paths that is used to implement link-cut tree

112. Splay tree — a tree where each vertex is raised to the root before any operation is carried out on it

113. B-tree — a balanced search tree with a varying number of descendants of each vertex

114. AVL-tree — the default balanced binary search tree that demands rotations at certain vertices in order to stay balanced

════════════════════════════════

115. Range searching — asking to return all pieces of data in a given interval.

116. Output-sensitive algorithm — an algorithm such that one has to take into consideration its output to estimate its running time.

117. Kd-tree — a tree used for range searching in which adjacent nodes split the data according to the dimensions of the space that are alternating

118. Amortised — evaluated on average during large number of consecutive queries

119. Sublinear — estimated by o(n)

120. Median — a number in a set such that exactly a half of the set's numbers are smaller than it

121. Recurrence — a way to introduce a function such that the value f(n) is calculated using values on smaller arguments

122. Canonical subset of v — the subset of points stored in the leaves of the subtree rooted at a node v

123. Fractional cascading — a technique to improve the running time of a range searching tree

124. Squaring search — a way to find an upper bound for the answer by considering 2^2^k at each step. This way logarithms of the query double at each step.

125. Kuratowski's problem — a problem of determining how many different sets one can obtain using Cl and Int operations

126. Composite-number space — a space in which pairs of points are sorted lexicographically

127. Point location query — given a map and a query point specified by its coordinates, find the region of the map containing it

128. Planar subdivision — a structure of cells, edges and vertices covering the plane.

129. Vertical slab — a stripe inside which there are no vertices

130. Trapesoidal map — a subdivision whose cells are trapezoids with vertical bases or triangles

131. Incremental algorithm — an algorithm constructing a structure adding one site after another, rather than considering all sites at once. It is usually slower than an offline algorithm.

132. Topology — a collection of sets that are to be called open. It satisfies certain properties: any union of open sets is an open set.

133. Advisory board — a group of people making decisions.

134. Voronoi assignment model — the model where every point is assigned to the nearest site

135. Cartesian coordinates — a system assigning a pair of numbers to each point in the plane

════════════════════════════════

136. Metric — a symmetric function that is zero on coinciding elements and satisfies the triangle inequality

137. Metric space — a set equipped with a metric

138. Triangulation — a decomposition of an object into a set of triangles or simplices

139. Face — a polygon of the highest possible dimension that belongs to a graph / to a surface

140. Edge — an intersection of two faces

142. Incident — two objects of different priorities next to each other

143. Adjacent — two objects of equal priorities next to each other

144. Quadrilateral — a polygon with four sides

145. Tight bound — a bound that is reachable and thus can not be improved

146. Iterative — a process that is repeated several times

148. Nearest neighbor — a site such that the distance from it to the query point is minimal

149. Residue — a number between 0 and n-1 that is congruent to the given number modulo n

150. Power series — a formal sum of powers of a variable with various coefficients

151. Congruence — any sensible equivalence relation

152. Convex domain — a domain such that any segment connecting two its points lies inside it

153. Connected space — a space that cannot be represented as a union of two open sets

154. Path connected space — a space where there exists a path between any two points

155. Simply connected space — a space where every loop can be contracted

156. A loop — a path from a point to itself

157. Primality test — an algorithm testing if a given number is prime

158. Turing machine — a model with a finite number of states, an infinite tape and a set of rules describing transition between states

159. Cellular automaton — a set of cells where the state of a cell changes at each step in accordance with the states of its neighbors

160. Markov's algorithm — a Turing-complete model comprised only of replacement rules

161. Winning position — a position from which a turn can be taken into a losing position

163. Losing position — a position from which any turn leads to a winning position

164. Voronoi diagram — a subdivision of the plane according to the nearest neighbor queries.

165. Flarb — a combinatorial operation of adding a new face to a graph.

166. Tree — a connected graph with no cycles.

167. Pendant vertex — a vertex of degree 1.

168. Euler cycle — a cycle that visits each edge of a graph exactly once.

169. Hamiltonian cycle — a cycle that visits each vertex of a graph exactly once.

170. Search — a problem of outputting the piece of data assigned to a given key

171. Sorting — a problem of placing several numbers or keys in the ascending order.

172. RAM machine — a model that can access any memory cell in constant time

173. Forest — a possibly disconnected graph with no cycles.

174. Dual graph — a graph whose vertices are faces of G and whose edges are edges incident to these faces

175. Language — a set of strings that one usually wants to be able to distinguish

176. Computational hierarchy — a separation of problems into levels according to the number of quantifiers preceding a computable problem

177. Motion planning — a problem of assigning a strategy to several moving robots such that no collisions happen and total traveled distance is minimal

178. Geodesic center — a point of the set such that maximal geodesic distance from it to a point of the set is minimised

179. Noncooperative game — a game where players take their turns simultaneously, and the prize is split immediately afterwards

180. Network — a graph with a large number of vertices and a set of rules that apply to its connectivity

181. PCB — a printed contact board that is used for connecting several electronic devices. It is comprised of several sheets on which tracks are laid

182. Delaunay triangulation — a triangulation in the plane such that the circumcircle of any triangle does not contain any vertices but of this triangle

183. Euclidean shortest path problem — a problem of connecting two points in a Euclidean space (with polyhedral obstacles) by a shortest path

184. Mesh — a subdivision of an area into cells of simple shapes

185. Ray tracing problem — given a set of objects in space, produce a data structure that efficiently outputs which object a query ray intersects first

186. Flipping — an operation replacing one diagonal of a quadrilateral in a triangulation with the other diagonal

187. Divide-and-conquer algorithm — an algorithm whose initial step is splitting the query set into two roughly equal parts

188. Farthest-first traversal — a sequence of points where the first point is selected arbitrarily and each successive point is as far as possible from the set of previously-selected points

189. Prefix — a part of the sequence from the beginning to a certain point

190. Suffix — a part of the sequence from a certain point to the end

191. Delaunay refinement — adding vertices to a triangulation in a way such that the triangulation obeys certain quality requirements afterwards.

192. Pigeonhole principle — a statement concerning not being able to fit n+1 pigeons into n holes

193. Osculating circle — the circle passing through the point of a curve that has the same curvature as the curve at this point

194. Source vertex — a vertex in an oriented graph with no incoming edges

195. Sink vertex — a vertex in an oriented graph with no outcoming edges

196. Triangle strip — a sequence of triangles where each next triangle shares an edge with the previous one

197. Subdivision of a graph — a graph obtained from the given one by adding vertices of degree 2 in the interior of the edges

198. Regular graph — a graph in which all the vertices have the same degree

199. Flow on a graph — an assignment of a number and an orientation to each edge of the graph such that the sum of the numbers at each vertex is zero

200. Hashing — assigning certain numbers to strings in such a way that it becomes easy to check if two long strings differ
